*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 51576 ***

                           SHATTER THE WALL

                          By SYDNEY VAN SCYOC

                          Illustrated by WEST

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Galaxy Magazine February 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




               They were a charming family and everybody
                loved them to death--especially Amanda!


There he stood, Bass McDowall, life-size on the Wall. She made herself
look at the hateful broad-shouldered image with the deliberately
penetrating black eyes. She made herself watch his boy-image bend over
Kippie's slender girl-image, made herself listen to his mellow voice
gasp, "Kippie, sweetie-bug."

Savagely she thrust upward on the ebony lever. Bass McDowall, Wall
idol, and Kippie lurched and disappeared. Lights glowed from fixtures
recessed into the ceiling, illuminating the long, windowless Wall room.

Kathryn, whose hair was a snug, dark Kippie-cap, leaped from the Wall
seat. "Don't turn it off now! Couldn't you even tell, Mother? He's
going to kiss her! Turn it back on this minute!"

Amanda stationed herself before the lever, shaking her head. "Not until
I've spoken to you," she said. "Kathryn, I don't think you realize
yet what it means, but you're the youngest person, the very youngest,
living in this city."

"Quit calling me that! Everyone has to call me Kippie." She cocked her
dark head, Kippie-like. The red mark caused by the constant prodding
of her index finger against her cheek glared. "Bass loves Kippie. He
called her sweetie-bug."

"I refuse to call you Kippie." She folded her arms. "I don't want to
discuss your name again, Kathryn."

"It will be Kippie." She squirmed into a Kippie-like position. "Soon as
I'm twenty-one, I'll change it. You wait!"

"Perhaps you will, Kathryn. But I'll never call you Kippie."

"Oh, quit being silly and turn it on. He might kiss her again." She
focused her blue eyes upon the Wall. "Turn it on."

"Kathryn, I want to talk to you, and I intend to do so without Bass
McDowall staring over my shoulder." She sat down beside her daughter.
"Now, Kathryn, you're nineteen years old, and you're certainly
attractive by any--"

"I don't have dimples like Kippie does." Remembering, she poked her
finger back into her cheek.

"I'm not talking about Kippie." She stared at the finger sunk into her
daughter's cheek, wondering how many times she had explained that it
wouldn't cause a dimple. "I want you to get married, Kathryn."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I've told you a million times, I won't. You're always after me!" she
wailed. "Bass won't ever marry anyone, not even Kippie, and she's got
dimples. Bass says--"

"Bass McDowall is not a real person. He's only an actor."

"He's the realest thing in the world. But he won't marry me, so you'd
better forget it." She stepped to turn the Wall on again.

Instantly the ash tray was in Amanda's hand, the massive glass tray
Dell had given her. She hurled it at the Wall, which shattered with a
brittle explosive splintering.

Kathryn jumped back, wailing. "I hate you!" Frantically she manipulated
the lever and twisted the ebony dials. "Bass, come back. Bass!"

Amanda patted the Wall seat. "Sit down, Kathryn."

Finally the girl sat down, sullenly rubbing her eyes with her fists.

"Kathryn, have you noticed that we never see infants on the Wall? We
never see small children, either, because, Kathryn, you're the youngest
person in this city. The week after you were born, the city hospital's
obstetrical ward closed permanently."

Kathryn sobbed convulsively. "Who needs babies? I want Bass!"

"The human race needs babies! Kathryn, you sit so complacently in front
of your Wall and pretend there isn't a world! There won't be unless you
wake up."

"Don't be silly!"

"I'm not. Kathryn, you may be the youngest person in the world, for
all I know. Forty or fifty years from now this planet will be cluttered
with blank Walls. There'll be no one to watch them."

"Well, there's nothing I can do about it. I'm not different, like you."

"Kathryn, marry. Have children. Persuade your friends at the office--"

She laughed shrilly, rocking back against the Wall seat. "Friends! They
hate me, every one of them, and I hate them. Even if Bass did marry me,
they'd only take him away."

Amanda clutched her fists. "I don't want you to marry Bass. You must
find some nice boy your own age."

"Oh, Mother! You want me to marry some stupid, ugly boy! You can't make
me!"

"Kathryn, he needn't be dull. There are hundreds of boys, each
interesting in--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hearing a sound, she looked up to see Dell, thin and red-headed,
standing in the doorway staring at the shattered Wall.

Kathryn jumped up. "Mother broke it. She threw that big green ash tray
and broke it all to pieces."

Dell looked questioningly at Amanda. "Honey, why'd you do that?"

"She's jealous of Bass!"

"Now isn't Bass pretty young for you, honey?" He stooped to remove the
ash tray from inside the shattered Wall. "Now, how can I watch Alice
this evening? She promised me a special dance in that red dress she was
showing me last night."

"Showing you?" She sprang up. "She showed it to every man in the
country, Dell."

He frowned. "Well, I'll call Replacements. They'll have a new Wall in
before Alice comes."

"And I'll smash it too. I'll smash every replacement you can buy!"

"Now, Amanda." He regarded her mildly. "You're not jealous of Alice!
Honey, if you'd watch Lester, you wouldn't care about Alice and me."

She took the intact ash tray from him. "I'm not jealous of Alice, and I
haven't been for twenty years. But Dell, do you realize Kathryn was the
last child born in this city?"

The girl's voice was harsh. "She wants me to marry some stupid, ugly
boy. And I won't do it! I love Bass."

Dell's pale eyes were rebuking. "Amanda, how can you expect Kippie to
do that?"

She stepped back. "Kippie?" she said harshly. "Dell, that girl standing
there is Kathryn, our daughter--not Kippie."

"Don't let such little things upset you, baby. I'll go call
Replacements, and we'll all sit down together when Alice and Lester
come." He turned.

She seized his arm. "I will _not_ watch Lester," she said. "I will not
sit and stare at that big, gray-haired ape and pretend I'm in love with
him."

Dell frowned. "You don't really think he looks like an ape, do you,
baby? I was--well, thinking of changing my name to Lester."

Kathryn leaped to hug him. "Oh Daddy! It'll be so wonderful. Lester,
Lester, Lester! If we had an Alice and a Bass, we'd be almost like a
real family."

She stared at them. "I'd hoped to put you in a favorable frame of mind
for this, Kathryn," she said. "You'll remember that three years ago the
Watsons, next door, had Wall failure and couldn't get service until
morning. I invited them to watch our Wall."

Dell nodded. "Haven't seen them since, now that I think of it."

"You haven't. But tonight Mrs. Watson is lending me her son Gerald.
He's coming at seven."

"Mother!" Kathryn cried, releasing Dell. "How terrible! Gerald! What a
stupid name. I love Bass, and you can't take him away from me."

"That wasn't very nice, was it, Amanda?"

"It's done," she said. "He's twenty-two, and I want you to talk to him,
Kathryn."

Kathryn scowled.

"And I've arranged for you to go over to their house to watch Alice, if
you must, Dell."

Dell forgot he was indignant. "Well, Kippie, maybe this one time you
can do as your mother wants," he said. "Surely Bass won't mind if you
miss him this once. He's an understanding sort of chap."

Kathryn thought for a moment, scowling. "All right, I'll do it--if
you'll call me Kippie, Mother."

Amanda studied her. "All right--Kippie," she said finally.

       *       *       *       *       *

After agreeing reluctantly not to call Replacements until Gerald had
come and gone, Kippie wriggled into a Kippie-like position and poked
her finger deep into her cheek again.

Gerald, who arrived promptly at seven, wore his light hair combed
into a Bass-like curl low over his forehead. He speared Amanda with a
penetrating stare, making her shiver as she led him to the Wall room.

Kippie sulked angrily on the Wall seat.

Amanda introduced them, and they looked at each other, their glances
revealing no interest.

"You're trying to comb your hair like Bass," Kippie accused.

Gerald grinned. "Sure thing, sweetie-bug."

"Then you should dye it. It's the wrong color. Bass doesn't have blond
hair. And why is your name still Gerald? Don't you ever want to be
Bass?"

Gerald looked slapped. "I tried. Honest, I really did. But you know
there's a limit, and the man at the bureau said there were too many
Basses already." His face brightened. "But my parents call me Bass all
the time."

"Oh."

Gerald shuffled his feet. Gingerly he sat down.

"Uh, did you see them last night?" he asked.

"Of course. I always see them, except when my mother does something
stupid."

Quickly Amanda excused herself and went to the Food Center. She leaned
against the counter, trying to overhear their conversation.

They spoke in broken murmurs momentarily, then were silent.

Kippie cleared her throat irritably.

"Uh, nice weather," Gerald said loudly.

"I haven't been out."

They were silent again. She tried to make her fingers stop picking at a
spot on the counter surface.

Suddenly Kippie emerged hurriedly from the Wall room, looking put upon.

"Where are you going?" Amanda demanded.

"He can't talk like Bass, even when he tries. And his hair is the wrong
color, and he has blue eyes."

"But Kathryn--Kippie, those are external characteristics! You can't
judge a person by the color of his hair and his eyes. You must get
acquainted with him."

"I won't do it. I don't love him. I love Bass!" She cocked her head,
Kippie-like. "And besides, he loves the real Kippie. And I'll never
have dimples. I'm going to call Replacements."

Amanda seized her arm. "Call them, and I'll break the new Wall too.
I'll break every Wall you bring into this house. Don't you understand
what's happening?"

"Quit being stupid."

"I'll break every Wall you have installed."

"And every time you do it, I'll order a new one." She broke loose and
ran to the communicator.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had to do something. She wondered briefly, must I do something? It
could only be the survival instinct driving her. Perhaps, she thought
wryly, she was the only person who still possessed that particular
instinct.

She could never break every Wall in the world, no matter how she tried.

She picked up the magazine Kippie had thrown down that morning. Running
her finger over the cover, she poked it through Bass's penetrating eye.
She poked Kippie in the nose.

She flipped the magazine open and went through it, mutilating the
pages. "There's a hole in your head, Lester....

"One less eye for you, Alice....

"Poor little Kippie, I tore your chin. Right through the dimple. Will
Bass love you now, Kippie?

"Goodby, Bass." She crumpled him into a ball and threw him at the sink.

On the next page was a print of a restaurant. She read the caption.

"For two hours each evening, while filmed sequences are shown to the
home audience, the stars retire to Antola's for sandwiches, drinks and
shop talk."

She tried to stop her thoughts as they went to the sleeping alcove and
the old gun in the top shelf of the built-ins. Dell hadn't bothered to
unload it since he'd cleaned it last.

She dropped the magazine and went to the top shelf of the built-ins.
The gun was there.

       *       *       *       *       *

It didn't take her long to drive downtown. There were no other cars on
the streets, and the current to the traffic lights had been cut three
years before. She passed only a prowling squad car, and the two police
stared at her curiously.

She parked a block from Antola's. Leaving the car, she slung her purse,
heavy with the gun, over her arm. Briskly she walked down the deserted
street.

Antola, standing behind the bar, was tall, thin and red-headed. He
stared at her incredulously, wiping his hands repeatedly on his long
white apron.

She went past the bar to a small table.

Antola continued to wipe his hands, as if they would not quite come
dry. "You want something?"

"Yes, bring me a bacon and tomato sandwich and milk."

"Don't have bacon and tomato. Kippie, she likes tuna. Bass hamburg.
Lester and Alice, they both take grilled cheese. Which do you want?"

"Bring me tuna and milk."

"Kippie, she says milk don't go with tuna. Makes a big blob inside."

"I said tuna and milk."

"Okay, if you want a blob inside. Kippie don't." He ambled away.

Not knowing how long she might have to wait, she nibbled at her
sandwich.

Soon she heard voices approaching the restaurant. She snaked her hand
toward the purse, opened it and clutched the gun.

Alice entered first, her hair a disciplined halo of red-gold, her eyes
vivid green. She was quarreling with Bass, who cheerfully ignored her,
his penetrating eyes staring greedily at the bottles behind the bar.

Small, precocious-seeming Kippie followed, her dark hair ruffled by the
wind. She stared lovingly up into Lester's eyes.

When the door had closed behind them, Amanda stood and raised the gun.
They hadn't noticed her, they'd been too anxious to mount the bar
stools. Ducks in a shooting gallery, she thought.

Alice was sitting nearer her, combing her hair with her fingers.
Holding the gun out before her with both hands, Amanda aimed it at
Alice's hair. She pulled the trigger.

At the sound, they all tried to duck, except Alice, who folded quietly
to the floor. Amanda aimed again, and this time Lester crumpled.

Ducks in a shooting gallery, she thought. See if you can make that big
drake, Bass, fall off his stool.

Bass fell. Kippie screamed, banishing her dimples, and fell beside him.

Antola had disappeared. It didn't matter. She returned the gun to her
purse. She hadn't decided what to do next. Suddenly feeling hungry, she
sat down to finish her sandwich.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she was through, she rose, slung her purse over her arm again and
stepped past the four bodies. They hardly seemed real, lying in their
separate pools of crimson.

The two policemen came in, staring at her again.

"Catch her!" Antola cried from beneath the bar. "She done it! She
killed them all! Poor little Kippie!"

The florid policeman locked his hand about her wrist, while the other
cried for Antola to come out.

Her wrists were quickly handcuffed, and the florid policeman escorted
her to the police car. He shoved her into the back seat.

She didn't move, didn't think. The world seemed frozen.

It didn't begin to thaw again until the second squad car and the
ambulances arrived. They came slowly, without sirens or flashing
lights. She wondered why they came so casually.

The florid policeman returned to the car. "All dead," he said. "Even
poor little Kippie."

Silently they drove the deserted streets. She looked out at the
buildings, knowing the people inside them soon would be shocked by
the news of the stars' deaths.

When they reached police headquarters, she had to run to keep up with
the florid policeman as he pulled her up the stone steps. They walked
endless corridors, gray and gloomy, until they emerged into a small,
dim room.

A man in a tweed coat, who smoked a pipe and spoke suavely, stepped
from the group of men in street clothes.

"Did you kill them?" he asked. "Don't be afraid to tell me. I only want
to know if you killed them."

She nodded. "Certainly I did it."

He took her purse from the uniformed policeman and removed the gun.
"But why, tell me. Were you jealous of Alice, perhaps?" His pipe jumped
as he smiled confidentially.

"Certainly not!" she said. "I did it to save the human race from
suicide."

The men smiled, amused.

"Lock her up until we decide," the man in tweed instructed the florid
policeman. He gave her the purse, minus the gun.

       *       *       *       *       *

A bony, disapproving matron led her to a cell and locked her into it.
Amanda requested pencil and paper.

The matron frowned but brought them. Placing the paper against her
purse, she began composing a statement to the press, making clear her
motives.

The filmed sequence still played on the small Wall opposite her cell.
She glanced up occasionally at the faces and smiled.

She had almost completed the statement when the filmed sequence ended.
The small, oily emcee appeared upon the Wall. "Ladies and gentlemen,"
he said.

She waited expectantly for the death announcement.

"Our stars!" He flung out his arms dramatically.

And the four stars pranced, smiling, across the Wall. Kippie, Bass,
Alice and Lester.

Amanda jumped to the bars. It was not a film.

"Matron!" she screamed. "Matron!" Frantically she stared at the four
actors whom she had murdered and who were alive and smiling.

"Matron!"

The bony matron unlocked the cell. "Come with me."

"Matron, I killed them. I shot them!"

"Come with me."

The matron led her into a small, dim room.

The tweedy man smiled confidentially around his pipe. "Are you ready to
go home, Mrs. Davis?"

"But I murdered them. You have to keep me here!" She tried to catch
the lapels of his suit.

He smiled again. "Who did you murder, Mrs. Davis?"

"All of them. You know I did it. I shot them, and they were all dead.
He said so--the policeman." Her hands shook.

"Look over there." He pointed to a small Wall. "They're alive and
performing, aren't they, Mrs. Davis?"

She looked at the Wall. Alice and Lester were planting a small rose
bush together.

"You see, occasionally women do suffer from delusions like yours," he
said. "But now that you've recovered, I'll drive you home. After a
quiet night you'll forget all this."

"They aren't delusions," she insisted. "I did it, with my husband's
gun. I waited until they closed the door, then I aimed--I know I did
it."

"Yes, certainly," he said, leading her to the door. "Now come along
home, Mrs. Davis."

She continued to protest, but he pulled her through the corridors and
down the steps to a waiting car. He nudged her into the front seat.

       *       *       *       *       *

They passed darkened buildings. She saw the neon sign atop the _Herald_
offices ahead. If no one knew she'd killed them, no one would awaken.
No one would live again. The world would end after all.

She opened the door and jumped from the moving car. Stumbling, she ran
toward the _Herald_ offices.

She stumbled into the building and began seeking through its bright
corridors. Stopping to stare at each office door, she finally found the
one labeled "Editorial. Mr. Gray." She pushed into the office.

The little man behind the desk wore horn-rim glasses and smoked a pipe
that was a copy of Lester's. He smiled paternally. "Yes, dear?"

"I killed them! They're all dead!"

Realizing excitement did nothing to make her words more believable, she
forced herself to be calm.

Editor Gray wore his gray hair combed straight back, Lester-like. He
stood, putting one hand into his trouser pocket, as Lester always did.

"Who did you kill?" he asked quietly. "Calm down, dear. Tell me who you
killed."

"Lester and all the rest. You have to print it. I shot them--they're
dead. Print it in your paper."

He crossed the room to his Wall. Bass and Kippie were rolling pie dough
together, one on either end of the rolling pin.

"I'm afraid you're imagining these things, my dear." He sucked his
pipe, looking lovingly at Kippie. "I could love that child, but of
course Alice would be jealous."

She backed away from him into the arms of the tweedy man, who had come
into the office.

"I'm sorry to bother you, sir," he said. "This poor woman is suffering
from delusions. I was driving her home when she escaped me."

"That's all right," Editor Gray said mildly. "Perhaps she needs
professional help. Have you considered that, my dear?"

But Amanda was staring at Bass. She stared at his penetrating eyes, his
broad shoulders, at the curl of hair combed low over his forehead. The
curl was swirled left, not right.

The tweedy man took her arm, guided her from the building and nudged
her into the car.

Do they curl a dead actor's hair differently, she wondered. She had
killed them. Why weren't they dead?

       *       *       *       *       *

When they reached her house, it was completely dark. Either Dell and
Kippie had gone to bed or the Wall had been replaced and was playing.

"I'm sorry I had to bring you away so abruptly," the tweedy man said.
"We can't afford to have the press print unfavorable reports about the
force, you understand." He fingered his pipe. "Now, Mrs. Davis, get a
good night's sleep. Tomorrow you'll realize it was all a bad dream. You
wouldn't kill the stars."

Woodenly she walked up the front walk. Hearing Bass's mellow voice from
the Wall room, she knew Kippie and Dell were up.

She entered the room. Kippie sat curled on the Wall seat.

Amanda stared at the handsome face on the Wall. Bass McDowall, Wall
idol. Why wasn't he dead?

His curl was still curled wrong. She looked more closely at his face as
he leaned toward Kippie, gasping, "Sweetie-bug."

There was a small scar beneath his left eye. The tiniest, most
insignificant scar, but it had never been there before.

"Poor Bass, he looks so tired," the Kippie on the Wall seat said. "See
how his face looks thinner when he's tired? I wonder if she notices it."

Dell said, "After all, Bass has worked hard today, Kippie."

Bass's face was indeed thinner. Thinner face, small scar that hadn't
been there before, curl that curled wrong--what did it mean?

Suddenly she realized the image on the Wall wasn't Bass. She corrected
herself. He was a different Bass. He wasn't the one she had shot, but
his almost identical double.

She stared at her daughter, who looked more like Kippie each time she
assumed another of her characteristics or poses. There were hundreds
of young people wanting to be Bass or Kippie, hundreds of young men
combing their hair the way Bass did, smiling as he did, learning to use
their eyes as he did. And if the time should come when a new Bass was
needed, there he was, hundreds of him.

She frowned. Undoubtedly they had several doubles waiting conveniently
nearby to perform if something should happen to one of the stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

She felt a choking in her throat. It would be as impossible to kill all
the Basses and Kippies as it would be to break every Wall in the world.
There was no way to get rid of them, no way to make people listen to
what was happening. No way to prevent humanity from watching itself to
extinction.

As they grew older, she guessed, the actors would grow older too.
Gradually Bass would be thirty, then thirty-five, and Lester and the
others would age too. But no one would notice; everyone would be aging
at the same rate.

But some day someone would notice. Some day all the Lesters would
die, and there would be no more Lester to smile at Alice and look
thoughtful. And people would look around and see that her daughter,
Kathryn, was the youngest person in the world.

But by then even Kathryn would be past the child-bearing age.

Stunned, she sat down beside Dell. He squeezed her hand. She looked up
at the Wall, into Bass's penetrating dark eyes. His eyes were so deep,
she thought. His hands were strong, and his face was intelligent. How
could she ever have hated him?

"Where've you been, baby?" Dell asked.

She shook her head irritably. "Be quiet," she said. "Can't you see he's
going to kiss her?"

Perhaps she should change her name to Alice. Then they'd have Kippie,
Alice and Lester. All they needed was a Bass, and they would be almost
like a real family.

It would be so easy to forget this way, looking deep into Bass's dark
eyes.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Shatter the Wall, by Sydney Van Scyoc

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 51576 ***
